
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

## Impacts of the invasive legume Leucaena leucocephala on native plants: a meta-analytic approach

## Project description

### Abstract

The introduction of exotic species deserves great attention since if
these species overcome environmental and dispersal barriers, they can
become invasive and cause severe changes in the environment. Exotic
invasive species, when interacting with native species, can cause their
population decline and even local extinction. In the case of plants,
this negative effect can be the product of a competitive interaction, in
which the invader can reduce the availability of resources or release
allelopathic substances. On the other hand, invasive plants can also
have a positive effect (facilitation) on native plants, improving the
surrounding conditions or making nutrients available. These processes of
facilitation and competition can occur simultaneously between the
invasive and the native plant, making it necessary to analyze the
balance of these interactions. As invasive plants occur across the
globe, differences in the characteristics of the environments or on the
plants with which they interact may explain the possible variations that
exist in the balance of interactions between invasive and native plants.
Among the 100 most invasive species in the world is the leguminous woody
plant Leucaena leucocephala, whose negative effects on native plants are
related to its high performance in competition for resources. At the
same time, the species can also have positive effects, increasing
nutrients or providing shade, which have favored its use in restoring
degraded areas. However, there is no clarity about the conditions that
favor the predominance of positive or negative effects of L.
leucocephala on native plants, making their deliberate planting
conflicting. In this context, the general objective of this work is to
investigate the effect of L. leucocephala on native plants. The specific
objectives are: I) quantitatively synthesize the effect of L.
leucocephala on native plants on a global scale, analyzing both the
signal and the intensity of interactions, II) investigate whether these
effects differ depending on the life stage of the target plant,
conservation degree of the study area or type of control treatment. To
investigate objectives we will carry out a meta-analysis with published
articles on interactions involving the effect of L. leucocephala on
native plants.

## Data

This repository contains scripts and data necessary for the
metaanalysis. In folder /Data/raw, is data.xlsx and data.csv, which
contains all the observations needed to the analysis. This datasheet was
constructed with studies that were selected for the metaanalysis.

For the analysis, script 01_A_sizeeffect was used, to calculate size
effect using the data sheet data_te.csv, located in /Data/processesd.
Forestplot are in outputs.

The analysis was made using the package “metafor”.

## Authors

[Marianela Pini](http://lattes.cnpq.br/8880528444047107), [Camila de
Toledo Castanho](http://lattes.cnpq.br/6667369800261150) and [Adriana
Maria Zanforlin Martini](http://lattes.cnpq.br/9667961181933438)
